# Eco-lution 
An app that bridges the gap between the organizations that want to work for the environment and climate change and folks who are willing to help, by giving out tasks and activities.

##  Inspiration:

* Ecosystem, the fabric of life on which we all depend, is declining rapidly because of human actions.Tropical forests across the world were destroyed at an alarming rate in 2020, despite the raging Coronavirus and the lockdowns as natural forces took over. 
* India lost nearly 38.5 thousand hectares (Kha) of tropical forest between 2019 and 2020 making up nearly 14 per cent loss of its tree cover. 
* Millions of tons of food go unused in India every year. India faces major environmental challenges associated with waste generation and inadequate waste collection, transport, treatment and disposal. Current systems in India cannot cope with the volumes of waste generated by an increasing urban population, and this impacts on the environment and public health. 


## What it does
* This app contains certain levels which can be achieved by performing certain eco-friendly activities and after achieving certain levels the users can claim rewards and badges.
* We have a certain number of registered non-profit plant organizations which plant trees. The user can connect through the organization through the app and plant a tree verified by the organization the points can be gained.
* There are many organisations which recycle the dry as well as organic waste and produce some useful products out of them.
* We can connect with organisations that recycle dry waste like bottles, cans, clothing, plastic, wood, glass, metals and paper. People can send their waste by packaging it to the organisation’s address and help contribute towards recycling it.
* Users can also see various cleanliness drives happening in their vicinity and can participate in them and gain rewards.
* Users can also participate in marathons and register them through the app and gain points. These marathons take place for raising funds for social causes .
* Users can also see the contributions made by other people in the nearby region.

## How we built it

* We used React and Material UI for designing and building the web application. We made a list of all the organisations that work for these causes and them had them listed in the dashboard so the users can interact with them in a few clicks.

## Challenges we ran into

* Understanding Material UI and other libraries in React and building components with them.

## Accomplishments that we're proud of
* One of the themes of the hackathon was building hacks on the environment and climate change. We got a chance to work on this theme and explore many more options about how we can contribute towards the environment. The app currently contains some well known organisations working tirelessly in their respective fields and interacting with them or participating in their events is one click

## What we learned
* Working in a team, teaming up with individuals having different skills and experience, understanding each other's views and coming up with the solution was also a worthwhile experience
* Getting to learn the applications of technologies we were already aware of, like react.
* We learned more about the organisations themselves and how they work

## What's next for Eco-lution
We have a number of ideas of features that could be added in the future, here are some of them:

* Users can team up with other users and participate in various drives.
* They can visit other users Profile and connect with them. They can also post things related to eco-friendly activities.
* Users can earn various rewards and offers if they have a high enough score or if they complete a specific achievement.
* They can get filtered tasks for their locality and help make their surrounding more cleaner and greener
* We can partner up with organisations that recycle dry waste like bottles, cans, clothing, plastic, wood, glass, metals and paper. People can send their waste by packaging it to the organisation’s address and help contribute towards recycling it.

